REF 
+ https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6763


# Abstract
This document specifies How DNS resource records are named and structured to facilitate service discovery.
Given a type of service that a client is looking for, and a domain in which that client is looking for that service,
this mechanism allows clients to discover a list of named instances of the desired service, using standard DNS queries.
This mechanism is referred to as DNS-based Service Discovery or DNS-SD.

# 1. Introduction
A particular service instance can be described using
## A DNS SRV<br>
The SRV (service) record has a name of the form '\<Instance\>.\<Service\>.\<Domain>\' and gives the target host and port where the service instance can be 
reached.
Example: If a SRV-cognizant LDAP client wants to discover a LDAP server that supports TCP protocol and provides LDAP service for the domain example.com., it does a lookup of _ldap._tcp.example.com<br>
`=     lo IPv4 iR-ADV xxxx/xxxx UFR II                       _uscan._tcp          local`<br>
   `hostname = [u2004g.local]`<br>
   `address = [127.0.0.1]`<br>
   `port = [60000]`<br><br>
`=     lo IPv4 iR-ADV xxxx/xxxx UFR II                       Internet Printer     local`<br>
   `hostname = [u2004g.local]`<br>
   `address = [127.0.0.1]`<br>
   `port = [60000]`<br>
   `txt = ["rfo=ipp/faxout" "Fax=T" "Duplex=T" "PaperMax=tabloid-A3" "URF=CP255,DM1,PQ4,RS300,W8-16,FN3-4-20-21-22-23-28-29-30-31-8-10-93-5-74-75-76-77-82-83-84-85,IS1-4,OB10-42-40-41-43,V1.4" "pdl=application/octet-stream,image/urf,image/jpeg,application/pdf" "product=(iR-ADV xxxx/xxxx)" "ty=iR-ADV xxxx/xxxx" "note=qa11" "Color=F" "kind=document,envelope,postcard" "mopria-certified=2.0" "UUID=0fabc07e-30fd-391d-4bbb-00a953485c6d" "adminurl=http://127.0.0.1:60000/rps/airprint" "qtotal=1" "txtvers=1" "priority=60" "usb_MDL=iR-ADV xxxx/xxxx UFR II" "usb_MFG=XXXXX" "rp=ipp/print"]`<br><br>
"pdl-datastream"<br>
Many printer vendors send their own proprietary page description language (PDL) data over a TCP connection to TCP port 9100, herein referred to generically as the "pdl-datastream" protol<br>
`= enp1s0 IPv4 XXXXX MFxxxC/xxxC                              PDL Printer          local`<br>
   `hostname = [XXXXXcf9d6c.local]`<br>
   `address = [172.16.9.44]`<br>
   `port = [9100]`<br>
   `txt = ["UUID=6d4ff0ce-6b11-11d8-8020-f4a997cf9d6c" "PaperMax=legal-A4" "Punch=0" "Staple=F" "Sort=F" "Collate=F" "Bind=F" "PaperCustom=T" "Duplex=T" "Copies=T" "Color=T" "TBCP=F" "Binary=F" "Transparent=F" "usb_MDL=MFxxxC/xxxCC" "usb_MFG=XXXXX" "adminurl=http://XXXXXcf9d6c.local:80/airprint.html" "pdl=application/octet-stream,image/urf,image/pwg-raster,image/jpeg,application/pdf" "product=(CNMFxxxC/xxxCC)" "ty=XXXXX MFxxxC/xxxCC" "priority=20" "qtotal=1" "note=dev" "txtvers=1"]`<br><br>
LPD Printer<br>
`= enp1s0 IPv4 XXXXX MFxxxC/xxxC                              UNIX Printer         local`<br>
   `hostname = [XXXXXcf9d6c.local]`<br>
   `address = [172.16.9.44]`<br>
   `port = [515]`<br>
   `txt = ["UUID=6d4ff0ce-6b11-11d8-8020-f4a997cf9d6c" "PaperMax=legal-A4" "Punch=0" "Staple=F" "Sort=F" "Collate=F" "Bind=F" "PaperCustom=T" "Duplex=T" "Copies=T" "Color=T" "TBCP=F" "Binary=F" "Transparent=F" "usb_MDL=MFxxxC/xxxCC" "usb_MFG=XXXXX" "adminurl=http://XXXXXcf9d6c.local:80/airprint.html" "pdl=application/octet-stream,image/urf,image/pwg-raster,image/jpeg,application/pdf" "product=(CNMFxxxC/xxxCC)" "ty=XXXXX MFxxxC/xxxCC" "priority=30" "qtotal=1" "note=dev" "txtvers=1"]`<br><br>
IPPS Printer<br>
`= enp1s0 IPv4 XXXXX MFxxxC/xxxC                              _ipps._tcp           local`<br>
    `hostname = [XXXXXcf9d6c.local]`<br>
    `address = [172.16.9.44]`<br>
    `port = [10443]`<br>
    `txt = ["mopria-certified=1.3" "print_wfds=T" "rfo=ipp/faxout" "kind=document,envelope,postcard" "URF=ADOBERGB24,CP255,DM1,PQ4,RS300,SRGB24,W8-16,FN3,IS1-4,OB10-40,V1.4" "Fax=T" "Scan=T" "TLS=1.2" "usb_CMD=LIPSLX,CPCA" "UUID=6d4ff0ce-6b11-11d8-8020-f4a997cf9d6c" "PaperMax=legal-A4" "Punch=0" "Staple=F" "Sort=F" "Collate=F" "Bind=F" "PaperCustom=T" "Duplex=T" "Copies=T" "Color=T" "TBCP=F" "Binary=F" "Transparent=F" "usb_MDL=MFxxxC/xxxCC" "usb_MFG=XXXXX" "adminurl=http://XXXXXcf9d6c.local:80/airprint.html" "pdl=application/octet-stream,image/urf,image/pwg-raster,image/jpeg,application/pdf" "product=(CNMFxxxC/xxxCC)" "ty=XXXXX MFxxxC/xxxCC" "priority=10" "qtotal=1" "note=dev" "rp=ipp/print" "txtvers=1"]`<br><br>
`= enp1s0 IPv4 XXXXX MFxxxC/xxxC                              Web Site             local`<br>
   `hostname = [XXXXXcf9d6c.local]`<br>
   `address = [172.16.9.44]`<br>
   `port = [80]`<br>
   `txt = ["path=/"]`<br><br>
`= enp1s0 IPv4 XXXXX MFxxxC/xxxC                              _scanner._tcp        local`<br>
   `hostname = [XXXXXcf9d6c.local]`<br>
   `address = [172.16.9.44]`<br>
   `port = [80]`<br>
   `txt = ["scannerAvailable=1" "mdl=MFxxxC/xxxCC" "mfg=XXXXX" "UUID=f4a997cf9d6c" "ty=XXXXX MFxxxC/xxxCC" "adminurl=http://XXXXXcf9d6c.local:80/airprint.html" "note=dev" "txtvers=1"]`<br><br>
eSCL Scanner<br>
`= enp1s0 IPv4 XXXXX MFxxxC/xxxC                              _uscan._tcp          local`<br>
   `hostname = [XXXXXcf9d6c.local]`<br>
   `address = [172.16.9.44]`<br>
   `port = [80]`<br>
   `txt = ["usb_MFG=XXXXX" "mopria-certified-scan=1.2" "duplex=T" "is=platen,adf" "UUID=6d4ff0ce-6b11-11d8-8020-f4a997cf9d6c" "cs=color,grayscale" "pdl=application/octet-stream,application/pdf,image/jpeg" "representation=http://XXXXXcf9d6c.local/en/media/dev_icon_128x128.png" "adminurl=http://XXXXXcf9d6c.local:80/airprint.html" "rs=eSCL" "vers=2.63" "note=dev" "ty=XXXXX MFxxxC/xxxCC" "txtvers=1"]`<br><br>
IPP Printer<br>
`= enp1s0 IPv4 XXXXX MFxxxC/xxxC                              Internet Printer     local`<br>
   `hostname = [XXXXXcf9d6c.local]`<br>
   `address = [172.16.9.44]`<br>
   `port = [631]`<br>
   `txt = ["mopria-certified=1.3" "print_wfds=T" "rfo=ipp/faxout" "kind=document,envelope,postcard" "URF=ADOBERGB24,CP255,DM1,PQ4,RS300,SRGB24,W8-16,FN3,IS1-4,OB10-40,V1.4" "Fax=T" "Scan=T" "TLS=1.2" "usb_CMD=LIPSLX,CPCA" "UUID=6d4ff0ce-6b11-11d8-8020-f4a997cf9d6c" "PaperMax=legal-A4" "Punch=0" "Staple=F" "Sort=F" "Collate=F" "Bind=F" "PaperCustom=T" "Duplex=T" "Copies=T" "Color=T" "TBCP=F" "Binary=F" "Transparent=F" "usb_MDL=MFxxxC/xxxCC" "usb_MFG=XXXXX" "adminurl=http://XXXXXcf9d6c.local:80/airprint.html" "pdl=application/octet-stream,image/urf,image/pwg-raster,image/jpeg,application/pdf" "product=(CNMFxxxC/xxxCC)" "ty=XXXXX MFxxxC/xxxCC" "priority=10" "qtotal=1" "note=dev" "rp=ipp/print" "txtvers=1"]`<br>

## A DNS TXT (text)<br>
The DNS TXT record of the same name gives additional information about this instance, in a structured form using key/value pairs.<br>
A DNS TXT record can be up to 65535 (0XFFFF) bytes long. Te total length is indicated by the length given in the source record header in the DNS message.<br>
When using Multicast DNS, the maximum packet size is 9000 bytes, including the IP header, UDP header, and DNS message header, which impose an upper limit on the size of TXT records of about 8900 bytes.<br>
The intention of DNS-SD TXT records is to convey a small amount of useful additional information about a device.


## DNS PTR<br>
A client discovers the list of available instances of a given service type using a query for a DNS PTR record with a name of the form "\<Service\>.\<Domain\>" which returns a set of zero or more names, which are the names of the aforementioned DNS SRV/TXT record pairs.<br>
`+     lo IPv4 iR-ADV xxxx/xxxx UFR II                       _uscan._tcp          local`<br>
`+     lo IPv4 iR-ADV xxxx/xxxx UFR II                       Web Site             local`<br>
`+     lo IPv4 iR-ADV xxxx/xxxx UFR II                       Internet Printer     local`<br>
`+     lo IPv4 iR-ADV xxxx/xxxx UFR II                       UNIX Printer         local`<br><br>
PTR records giving Service Instance Names of the form <br>
Service Instance Name = \<Instance\>.\<Service\>.\<Domain\><br>
Instance Name: Is a user-friendly name consisting of arbitrary Net-Unicode text.<br>
Service Names: The first label of the pair is an underscore character followed by the Service Name. The second label is either "_tcp" or "_udp".<br>
Domain Names:It may be "local." meaning "link-local Multicast DNS" or it may be a conventional Unicast DNS domain name, such as "ietf.org."

When used with Multicast DNS, DNS-SD can provide zero-configuration operation -- just connect a DNS-SD/mDNS device, and **its services are advertised** (meaningful?) on the local link with no further user interaction.

# 2. Design Goals
Of the many properties a good service discovery protocol needs to have, three of particular importance are:
1. The ability to query for services of a certain type in a certain logic domain, and receive in response a list of named instance. (network browsing or "Service Instance Enumeration")
1. Given a particular named instance, the ability to efficiently resolve that instance name to the required information a client needs to actually use the service, i.e., IP address and port number, at the very least (Service Instance Resolution)
1. Instance names should be relatively persistent.

# 3. 思考的一些问题<br>
1. ipp-usb是如何通过USB获取DNS-SD name的？难道是因为USB也可以传递UDP package？<br>
    A： 并不是的，ipp-usb只是通过IPP属性"printer-dns-sd-name"获取了DNS-SD，然后自己发布了一下IPP/eSCL protocol。<br>

2. 既然ipp-usb自己发布了ipp/eSCL protocol，那么该协议又可以通过mDNS/DNS-SD被找到，那么就是说本机肯定开了5353端口用来接收DNS package，那么该5353端口是谁开的？<br>
    A：是Avahi-daemon开的<br>
`  # netstat -lntup`<br>
`Active Internet connections (only servers)`<br>
`Proto Recv-Q Send-Q Local Address           Foreign Address         State       PID/Program name    `<br>
`tcp        0      0 127.0.0.53:53           0.0.0.0:*               LISTEN      903/systemd-resolve `<br>
`tcp        0      0 127.0.0.1:631           0.0.0.0:*               LISTEN      951/cupsd           `<br>
`tcp6       0      0 ::1:631                 :::*                    LISTEN      951/cupsd           `<br>
`udp        0      0 0.0.0.0:57300           0.0.0.0:*                           917/avahi-daemon: r `<br>
`udp        0      0 127.0.0.53:53           0.0.0.0:*                           903/systemd-resolve `<br>
`udp        0      0 192.168.152.140:68      0.0.0.0:*                           948/NetworkManager  `<br>
`udp        0      0 0.0.0.0:631             0.0.0.0:*                           990/cups-browsed    `<br>
`udp        0      0 0.0.0.0:5353            0.0.0.0:*                           917/avahi-daemon: r `<br>
`udp6       0      0 :::5353                 :::*                                917/avahi-daemon: r `<br>
`udp6       0      0 :::60783                :::*                                917/avahi-daemon: r `<br>

3. mDNS & DNS-SD<br><br>
**mDNS: multicast Domain Name System**<br>
mDNS像是一种通路连接的规范：Server开了5353端口来监听UDP package。client发送UDP package到组播地址（224.0.0.251），Server发送UDP response包。<br>
`Multicast DNS (mDNS) provides a naming service system that is easy to set up and maintain, for computers on a local link. All participating network devices on the same local link perform standard DNS functions, using multicast DNS rather than unicast, and do not need a unicast DNS server. For administrators, the primary advantage of mDNS is that no unicast DNS server needs to be maintained on the local network. There is no need, for example, to update and maintain host names in files to resolve hostname to IP address for devices on the local link that are using mDNS.`<br><br>
**DNS-SD: Domain Name System Service Discovery**<br>
DNS-SD更像是一种数据规范：利用mDNS这样的通道来获取一些信息，这些信息包含了该系统（开通了mDNS服务的系统）上开通了哪些其他服务（HTTP, IPP,IPPS），以及这些服务对应的端口等。<br>
`Network services include printing, file transfer, music sharing, servers for photo, document and other file sharing, and services provided by other local devices. DNS service discovery support in the Solaris OS includes open source framework and tools from Apple to enable applications to advertise and discover network services, using DNS on the Solaris OS.`<br><br>
`For users, network service discovery makes computing easier by enabling users to browse for services on the network, rather than needing to find the service manually. Existing standards, and work done by other companies and groups, assure that cross-platform support is available. `<br>